yeah so it's a it's called clever boy
but the best way to sort of see it is
it's a small ocean boy so it sits off
the coast of metropolitan beaches and
for example and has a sonar unit which
sits on the seabed that unit is
basically scanning to detect sharks in
the actual boy itself as a cpu and some
software that's designed to kind of
process that data and make a clear
identification so within sort of
microseconds it can identify if it's a
shark or not then send a message from
the boy to the satellite network and
then back to a lifeguard to basically do
something about it one of the biggest
problems with a supposed shark detection
and also alerts is really the sort of
kind of management of whether it
actually is a shark but the whole thing
started with a brief remotest who are
the second largest telco in Australia
and where they simply wanted to make the
intangible tangible which was sorry
about their network and the whole agency
work together on coming up with I think
it was something staggering like about
80 ideas and this is the one that
roasted the surface and then working
with Google we helped the client sort of
see how this could become possible but
what's really interesting about it was
the fact that there's a lot of risk
involved in the sense of it was had to
be proven and a lot of iteration and
technical testing to make it possible so
ops is basically our other champions of
the whole thing I mean if any think it's
not possible without their support and
getting this done funding the research
funding the prototype but ultimately the
fact that what this does is it shows
their network in a completely new light
so with most telcos all around the world
there's a there's a battle for supremacy
based on network coverage or many other
things where is this ultimately shows
how useful their network is and complete
creates a completely new way of looking
at it and in this instance can help
Australians have a safer experience with
the beach
the thing you have to note is that 85%
of the population lives within about 20
minutes of the beach so it's very much
part of people's lives so doing
something like this allows really Optus
to sort of take a higher ground and play
a really important role in people's
lives Luther's role really was to try
and put digital and technology at the
heart it wasn't necessarily using Google
products and platforms to deliver it
Google Circles has Google+ Circles has
become a really interesting option to
use as part of the beach so as far as
technology is concerned obviously the
shark mitigation systems guys are really
at the heart of the sonar technology the
circles really provide an opportunity to
communicate different messages to
different groups of people privately and
ad groups and circles to that as part of
a G+ product so it becomes more utility
based instead of more social media based
and what we love about that is it could
then send messages and and and
information to research to researchers
to government to councils and that's
really what excites us about using
Google+ Google normally works later down
the pipeline so the ideation is already
done maybe the media plan is just being
presented and we sort of come in maybe a
little bit too late in the process to
really try and make sure that digital is
at the heart of the solution and so this
has been a truly transformational way of
us working as well to start from the
very very beginning before the briefs
even written to partner and to really
collaborate and it's not going to be one
size fits all it really depends on the
agency and the brand but we're really
excited about where this can take us to
do these types of collaborations in the
future